---
title: Legal Notice 
lang: en
ref:
  it: /it/note-legali
layout: internal-long
---


[https://developers.italia.it](https://developers.italia.it) is a site that
aims to contribute to the growth and coordination of a community of developers
interested in developing instrumental code for the operation of online public
administration services. The site is managed by the Agency for Digital Italy.

In some cases (discussion forums), in order to access the contents and / or use
the Services it may be necessary to use credentials issued by the providers of
other services (e.g., github or google) or register, requesting the
attribution of new credentials. The user acknowledges that the Agency,
throughout the entire relationship, will identify them as the owner of their
rights and duties solely on the basis of the digital identity assigned to them
and represented by the credentials (user ID/email and password) that they
have indicated and / or chosen to use. The user therefore undertakes to keep
these credentials and to immediately report to the Agency - if they had chosen
to register directly on the Site - to the address
[protocollo@pec.agid.gov.it](mailto:protocollo@pec.agid.gov.it) the possible
loss of exclusive control over them, taking note of the fact that, in the
absence of such notification and up to the moment of its reception, they will
be responsible for every action and conduct put in place using such credentials
(e.g., publication of an online content, request for a Service, etc.) and will
not be able in any way to dispute the use of the services or access to the
contents connected to the use of the aforementioned credentials.

If the user, through certain services available on the website (e.g.,
discussion forum), can proceed with the publication, dissemination or
communication of content, they undertake not to publish, spread or communicate
exclusively unsuitable contents violating law and/or any rights of third
parties. In this case, moreover, the user declares and guarantees to have all
the rights necessary for the publication of the contents (texts, images,
photographs and/or pictures, videos, audiovisual material), having, if
necessary, previously obtained, where necessary, all the consents and
disclaimers provided for by current regulations, with particular - but not
exclusive - reference to the law on copyright and on protection of privacy. The
User hereby undertakes to guarantee to keep the Agency for Digital Italy safe
from any claim, including compensation, proposed and/or deriving, directly or
indirectly, from the use by the same user of the Services and/or the
publication of any content. For the purposes of this indemnity, any conduct put
in place using the credentials assigned to the latter will be considered
imputable to the user, unless the loss to the society is communicated prior to
the aforementioned conduct. It is understood that the Agency for Digital Italy
reserves the right to remove at any time any content published by the user
through the services in relation to the reporting of an alleged violation of
third party rights or in any case at its own unquestionable judgment. The User
grants the Agency for Digital Italy the right and license, not subject to any
compensation - and as such completely free - and not exclusive, to use, adapt,
publish, distribute, reproduce and execute without territorial and / or time of
publication limitations the content sent and published by the User through the
services. The foregoing provisions relating to the publication of content
through the site do not apply to the publication of source code through the
Github service referred to by the site. This publication remains subject to the
terms of use accepted by users when accessing the relevant discussion platform.

The ownership of all documents and content (texts, presentations, images,
photos, videos, etc.) belongs to the Agency for Digital Italy. The display,
download and any use of the data published on the Site implies acceptance of
these legal notes and the conditions of the license with which they are
published. Unless otherwise indicated, the contents published on this site are
made available with a CC â€“ BY 3.0 license, the full text of which is available
at the following address:
[https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/it/legalcode](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/it/legalcode).
This means that, unless otherwise specified, the contents of this site are
freely distributable and reusable, provided that the source is always cited and
- where possible - the web address of the original page is reported. The source
code of the Site is instead available
[on the Github platform ](https://github.com/italia/developers.italia.it) and,
therefore, reusable within the limits of the related license. The Agency for
Digital Italy is constantly striving to ensure the quality of the information
published on the site, as well as their integrity, updating, completeness,
promptness, simplicity of reference and accessibility. For any report or
suggestion you can write to the address
[protocollo@pec.agid.gov.it](mailto:protocollo@pec.agid.gov.it). In no case may
the Agency for Digital Italy be held liable for damages of any nature caused
directly or indirectly by access to the site, by the inability or impossibility
of accessing it. The links to external sites, indicated on this site, are
provided as a mere service to users, with the exclusion of any responsibility
for the correctness and completeness of the set of links. The links do not
imply on the part of the Agency for Digital Italy any kind of approval or
sharing of responsibility in relation to the legitimacy, completeness and
correctness of the information contained on the linked sites.